# Version Control Remembrances Storage
*   **Description**: To explain about the, gist tool for remembrances storing, types of gist and gist deployment.

*   **Version Control Remembrances Storing Tool**: Gist is a tool for storing version control remembrances. A tool called Gist is used to store notes on Git servers that are not related to the repository and that need to be remembered forever. These remembrances are stored as files on Git servers.

*   **Types of Gist**: There are two ways to store notes that you need to remember forever on Git servers. They are public and secret.
    *   **Public Gist**: Public gist is a gist that is visible to everyone.
    *   **Secret Gist**: Secret gist is a gist that is visible to only user account holder.

*   **Gist Deployment Process**: Since notes that need to be remembered forever are created as gist files on Git servers, all processes related to a file can be performed in gist files. Those are creating the public gist and secret gist, editing the gist, listing the gist, showing the gist, deleting the gist, gist sharing link creation, gist cloning link creation and searching the public gist.
    *   **Creating the Public Gist**: To create gist files to store notes that you want to remember forever on Git servers, click the Create New Gist button on the Gists page on Git servers. On the resulting page, type a description of the content of the specified gist file in Gist Description, then enter the name of the gist file in Gist File Name, then type the content of the file, and then select Create Public Gist in the drop-down button below. If you select Create Public Gist, the public gist file will be created. Such gist files can be viewed and read by anyone using the Git server.
    *   **Creating the Secret Gist**: To create gist files to store notes that you want to remember forever on Git servers, click the Create New Gist button on the Gists page on Git servers. On the resulting page, type a description of the content of the specified gist file in Gist Description, then enter the name of the gist file in Gist File Name, then type the content of the file, and then select Create Secret Gist in the drop-down button below. If you select Create Secret Gist, the secret gist file will be created. Such gist files can only be viewed, read, and edited by the specified user account holder on the Git server.
    *   **Listing the Gist Files**: To list the gist files of the forever-remembered notes created by the user account holder on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers and it will list all the secret gist files and public gist files created by that user account holder.
    *   **Showing the Gist Files**: To open and show the gist files of the notes that are to be remembered forever created by the user account holder on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers and click on the required gist file from the gist files created by that user account holder. The specified gist file will be opened and shown.
    *   **Editing the Gist Files**: To edit a specific gist file in the gist files of the forever-remembered notes created by the user account holder on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers, click on the required gist file from the gist files created by that user account holder, and click the Edit button of the specified gist file that opens. But, in the gist file, the name of the gist file, the description of the gist file, and the content of the gist file can be edited. Then, after making the necessary edits to the gist file, the Update Gist button is clicked to update the specified gist file.
    *   **Deleting the Gist Files**: To delete a specific gist file in the gist files of the notes to remember forever created by the user account holder on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers, click on the required gist file from the gist files created by that user account holder, and click the Delete button of the specific gist file that opens and shows. You can delete that specific gist file.
    *   **Gist Sharing Link Creation**: To create a link to share a specific gist file in the gist files of the notes to remember forever created by the user account holder on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers, click on the required gist file from the gist files created by that user account holder, and select Share from the drop-down box that shows the link to the opened specific gist file. The resulting link is a link to open and view the specific gist file in a web browser.
    *   **Gist Cloning Link Creation**: To create a link to clone a specific gist file in the gist files of the notes to remember forever created by the user account holder on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers, click on the required gist file from the gist files created by that user account holder, and select Clone VIA HTTPS from the drop-down box showing the link to the opened specific gist file. The resulting link is a link to clone the specific gist file to the local computer.
    *   **Searching the Public Gist**: To search for public gist files based on a specific subject from the public gist files available on Git servers, open the Gists page of the user account on Git servers and enter the required specific subject in the search bar. All public gist files related to that specific subject will be available.