# Version Control Sensitive Data Securing

*   **Description**: To explain about the, version control sensitive data securing, sensitive data types of repository, dangers of exposing sensitive data of repository, and components deplyment for securing the sensitive data in repository.

*   **Version Control Sensitive Data Securing**: Securing sensitive data in a remote repository from being accessed by cloned users, and preventing sensitive data in the local repository from being available to the remote repository, is essential for the survival of the repository and the program. This is called version control sensitive data securitization.

*   **Sensitive Data Types of Repository**: Some data of local repository and remote repository is sensitive data. They are APi keys, database credentials, SSH keys, authentication tokens, configuration files and personal information.
    *   **API Keys**: API keys are used to authenticate API requests. They are usually stored in .env files, which are environment variables. If the program in the repository needs to access any third-party services, their API keys are used for authentication to access them. API keys are usually not stored in the remote repository, as they are sensitive data. API keys are usually stored in the local repository.
    *   **Database Credentials**: Database credentials are used to authenticate database requests. They are usually stored in .env files, which are environment variables. If the program in the repository needs to access any database, their database credentials(user name and password) are used for authentication to access it. Database credentials are usually not stored in the remote repository, as they are sensitive data. Database credentials are usually stored in the local repository.
    *   **SSH Keys**: SSH keys are used to authenticate SSH requests. If SSH is configured for the user account on the Git server where the project's remote repository is built, if an attacker obtains this SSH key, they can use this key to access that user account and tamper with the project's repository. SSH keys are usually not stored in the remote repository, as they are sensitive data. 
    *   **Authentication Tokens**: Authentication tokens are used to authenticate requests. They are usually stored in .env files, which are environment variables. If the program in the repository needs to access any controled resources, their authentication tokens are used for authentication to access them. Authentication tokens are usually not stored in the remote repository, as they are sensitive data. Authentication tokens are usually stored in the local repository.
    *   **Configuration Files**: Configuration files are used to store configuration data. They are usually stored in .conf files, If the program in the repository needs to access configuration data of any services, their configuration files are used for authentication to access them. Configuration files are usually not stored in the remote repository, additionly such files will contain the credentials for that service, as they are sensitive data. Configuration files are usually stored in the local repository.
    *   **Personal Information**: Personal information is used to store personal data. They are usually stored in .json files,  Personal information are usually not stored in the remote repository, as they are sensitive data. Personal information are usually stored in the local repository.
    
*   **Dangers of Exposing Sensitive Data of Repository**: Exposing sensitive data of repository can lead to the loss of the repository and the program. There are many risks associated with exposing sensitive data in the repository. They are unauthorized access, malicious attacks, service disruption and compliance violation.
    *   **Unauthorized Access**: Exposing API keys or credentials to a remote repository can allow an attacker to use this to access those services, resources, or databases and conduct data breaches. Additionly it can also cause the program in the remote repository to lose control over such elements.
    *   **Malicious Attacks**: Exposing API keys or credentials to a remote repository could allow an attacker to access those services, resources, or databases, perform attacks such as DDoS attacks, and use them to distribute malware.
    *   **Service Disruption**: Exposing API keys or credentials to a remote repository could allow an attacker to access and disrupt those services, resources, or databases.
    *   **Compliance Violation**: Exposing personal information in the program to a remote repository could result in legal action and damage reputation.
    
*   **Components for Securing Sensitive Data of Repository**: Components for securing sensitive data of repository are .env files, .gitignore file, and .gitattributes file. Additionly using the secret management to secure sensitive data of remote repository is also recommended.
    *   **.env Files**: .env files are used to store environment variables.  If the program in the repository needs to access any third-party services, their API keys are used for authentication to access them. But if the program in the repository needs to access any resources or databases, their credentials or authentication tokens are used for authentication to access them. They are usually not stored in the remote repository, as they are sensitive data. They are usually stored in .env files on the local repository.
    *   **.gitignore File**: .gitignore file is used to ignore files and directories from being tracked by Git. It is usually stored in the remote repository and local repository, as it is not sensitive data. This .gitignore file contains files and directories that Git should not track, including their paths. But, when creating a remote repository, you can create and edit a .gitignore file for the default files of that programming language, depending on the language in which the program is being created using the settings of that remote repository.
    *   **.gitattributes File**: .gitattributes file is used to set attributes for files and directories. It is usually stored in the remote repository and local repository, as it is not sensitive data. This .gitattributes file contains attributes for files and directories. To avoid tracking data in a specific format in the program, that format is added to a file called .gitattributes.
    *   **Secret Management**: Secret management is a technique used to secure a remote repository. To do this, click the Change Visibility button in the Danger Zone in the settings of the remote repository and set it to Change to Private, which will prevent that remote repository from being viewed without authenticating with a username and password.    